Auto Scaling Group

    Dynamic scaling policies
    
    Works with EC2, ECS, Dynamo DB, Aurora
    
Auto Scaling - Enables to configure multiple scaling policies throguhout resources
Scaling interface
Scaling plans
Continual monitoring
Cost savings plan by avoiding overspending on unneeded resources
Target tracking scaling policies

Elastic load balancer

Introduction to containers: 
  Standardized unit of storage
  
  Stanadardized unit of sotfware
    App A B C
        L L L
      Containerization platform
      Operating system
      Server hardware
      
 lightweight, fast, sharing and non sharing of libraries, portable
 
 Docker
    portable runtime application environment
    package app and dependencies in a single, immuatble artifact
    Run different application version with different dependencies simultaneously
    Faster development and deployment cycles
    Better resource utilization and efficiency
    
    Tools to build,managem and deploy containers
    Leverages file system layers to be lightweight and fast
    
    
Microservices
  Decentralized, evolutionary design
  Smart endpoins, dumb pipes
  Independent products, not projects
  Designed fpr failure, build fast, recover fast
  Dispoabilityy
  Development and production parity


Security concepts
  Authentication
  Authorization
  Monitoring
  Audit
  Encryption
  Data path

Compute
  Three main types: Instances, containers and serverless
  CPU: measured in millicores
  Memory: measured in bytes
  
Amazon Elastic Cloud Compute:
  Virtual machines are the basic building blocks that get computing power from the cloud. Is software that can perform
  all functions as a physical computer. In EC2 virtual machines are called instances
  choice of over 500 instance types, with the latest processors, storage, OSs, and networking
  optimized for specific types of workloads, including memory optimized, compute optimized, storage optimized, 
    accelerated computing, and general purpose.
  complete control over the instance, down to the root level
Container:
  Run on top of the host OS and share the hosts kernel. Each container running on a host runs 
  its own isolated root file system in a a separate namespace that may include its own OS
  Deisgned to help ensure quick, reliable and consistent deployments. Regardless of developer host environment
  lightweight, efficient, fast, and highly portable
  There are no time-out limits when running. This is useful for applications that run longer than 15 minutes or that need to initiate instantly when called
  no size limit. They can be as large or as small as you need them to be.
  run without the startup latency of Lambda or Amazon EC2
  
Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service
  Is a managed service that allows you to run kubernetes without having to operate your own worker nodes.
  Kubernetes is an open source system for automating deployment, scaling, and management of containerized
  applications. 
  
Amazon Elastic Container Service
  You can deploy containerized workloads on a managed cluster of Amazon EC2 instances
  No need to intall, operate, and scale your own cluster management infrastructure
  
Serverles:
  Services that you can use to build and run applications without thinking about servers
  
AWS Lambda
  You can run code without provisioning or managing servers. Only pay for compute time you consume. No charge when your code 
  is not running. You can run code for virtually any type of aplication or backend service without provisioning or managing servers
  Upload code and set a trigger function to automatically call and run code from other services
  Unlike running instances, which you pay for even when they are not busy
  any short-lived application that can finish running in under 15 minutes.
  Event-driven architecture uses events to initiate actions and communication between decoupled services
  Each function includes your code and some associated configuration information, including the function name and resource requirements.
  Lambda functions are stateless, with no affinity to the underlying infrastructure. 
  Lambda can rapidly launch as many copies of the function as needed to scale to the rate of incoming events.

  
AWS Fargate 
  is a technology that you can use with Amazon ECS to run containers without having to manage servers or clusters of Amazon EC2 instances. 
  You no longer have to provision, configure, or scale clusters of virtual machines to run containers.
  
  
Optimal compute solution 
    for a workload varies based on application design, usage patterns, and configuration settings
    
A workload identifies a set of components that together deliver business value
  
Consider containers when:   
compute-intensive workloads
large monolithic applications having many parts
  You can break apart applications and run them as independent components, called microservices, using containers to isolate processes.
When you need to scale quickly 
When you need to move your large application to the cloud without altering the code


When not to consider containers:
  When applications need persistent data storage
      Persistent storage requirements increase the security and storage complexity and 
      also make the containers less portable.If the container is moved, the storage needs
      to be reconfigured and secured
  When applications have complex networking, routing, or security requirements


Considerations for serverless applications:
  focus only on your code and not on infrastructure
  less compute intensive
  applications that you are running or building small, simple, or modular
  


AWS Step Functions 
  is a fully managed service that you can use to coordinate the components of distributed applications and microservices using visual workflows
  

AWS Batch
  Batch computing is defined as the running of a program without manual intervention
  The program's input parameters are predefined through scripts, command-line arguments, 
  control files, or job control language. A given batch job might depend on the completion 
  of preceding jobs or on the availability of certain inputs. This makes the sequencing and 
  scheduling of multiple jobs critical.
  
  
AWS Elastic Beanstalk 
  developers upload their application. Then, Elastic Beanstalk automatically handles the deployment
  details of capacity provisioning, load balancing, auto-scaling, and application health monitoring
  
  
Amazon Lightsail
  With a virtual private server (VPS), also known as an instance, users can run websites and web applications
    in a highly secure and available environment. Lightsail is a VPS provider and is a useful way to get started
    with AWS for users who need a solution to build and host their applications on AWS Cloud
  
  provides developers with compute, storage, and networking capacity and capabilities to deploy and manage websites
    and web applications in the cloud
  includes VMs, containers, databases, content delivery network (CDN), load balancers, Domain Name System (DNS) management, and so on






