Module 9: Migration and Innovation

  Objectives:
    Understand migration and innovation in the aws cloud
    AWS Cloud Adoption Framework (AWS CAF)
    Six key factors of a cloud migration strategy
    Data migration solutions... AWS Snowcone, AWS Snowball and AWS Snowmobile
    
    
  Cloud Adoption Framework (AWS CAF)
    Organizes guidance into six aread of focus called Perspectives
        Business, People, Governance, Platform, Security, and Operations
        
    Business - ensures IT aligns with business needs and that IT invesments are linked to business results
      Roles: Business managers, Finance managers, Budget owners, and Strategy stakeholders
      
    People - Supports development of an organization wide change mamangement strategy for successful cloud adoption
      Roles: HR, staffing and people managers
      
    Governance - focuses on the skills and processes to align IT strategy with business strategy
      Roles: Chief Information Officer (CIO), Program managers, Enterprise architects, Business analysts, Portfolio managers
      
    Platform -  includes principles and patterns for implementing new solutions on the cloud, and migrating on-premises workloads to the cloud
      Roles: Chief Technology Officer (CTO), IT managers, Solutions architects
      
    Security - ensures that the organization meets security objectives for visibility, auditability, control, and agility
      Roles: Chief Information Security Officer (CISO), IT security managers, IT security analysts
      
    Operations -  helps you to enable, run, use, operate, and recover IT workloads to the level agreed upon with your business stakeholders
      Roles: IT operations managers, IT support managers
        
        
  Migration Strategies:
  
    6 strategies for migration  
    
      Rehosting - “lift-and-shift” involves moving applications without changes
      
      Replatforming - “lift, tinker, and shift,” involves making a few cloud optimizations to realize a tangible benefit. 
                       Optimization is achieved without changing the core architecture of the application.
                       
      Refactoring/re-architecting - reimagining how an application is architected and developed by using cloud-native features. 
                                    Refactoring is driven by a strong business need to add features, scale, or performance that 
                                    would otherwise be difficult to achieve in the application’s existing environment. New code
                                    
      Repurchasing - involves moving from a traditional license to a software-as-a-service model
                     Ending traditional legacy licensing to cloud native offerings,
                     
      Retaining - keeping applications that are critical for the business in the source environment. This might include applications
                  that require major refactoring before they can be migrated, or, work that can be postponed until a later time. Going 
                  to be depricated soonish
                  
      Retiring - process of removing applications that are no longer needed
      
      
AWS Snow Family:

  Cryptographically encrypted
  Migrationg to cloud via uploading may take too long
  
  AWS Snowcone a device that holds up to 8 Petabytes of data. Plug in, copy data and send in to aws so they can transfer data to a cloud service 
           like an S3 bucket. Ready to use
           
  AWS Snowball Edge: Storage, Compute: Shipped to remote locations. Image compression, industriaL. 80 TB
  
  AWS Snowmobile: 45ft pulled by truck. 100 petabytes. Network attached storage device, GPS tracker, video surveillance, fire safe
 
Innovation with AWS:
  Serverless applications
  Artificial Intelligence - Amazon LEX
  Machine Learning -AWS Sagemaker
