Module 10: Well Architected Framework
  Objectives:
    Understand Well Architected Framework
    Benefits of cloud computing
    
Well Architected Framework
  Helps undetand how to design and operate reliable, secure, efficient, and cost effective systems in the 
  Tool following pillars
  Pillars: Operational excellence, security, reliability, performance efficiency, and cost optimization
  
  Operational excellence
          the ability to run and monitor systems to deliver business value and to continually improve 
          supporting processes and procedures. performing operations as code, annotating documentation, 
          anticipating failure, and frequently making small, reversible changes
          
  Security
          ability to protect information, systems, and assets while delivering business value through risk 
          assessments and mitigation strategies.Automate security best practices when possible. Apply security 
          at all layers. Protect data in transit and at rest.
          
  Reliability:
     Ability of a system to do the following:
          Recover from infrastructure or service disruptions
          Dynamically acquire computing resources to meet demand
          Mitigate disruptions such as misconfigurations or transient network issues
            
          includes testing recovery procedures, scaling horizontally to increase aggregate
          system availability, and automatically recovering from failure.
          
  Performance efficiency
           ability to use computing resources efficiently to meet system requirements and to
           maintain that efficiency as demand changes and technologies evolve.
           
            includes experimenting more often, using serverless architectures, and designing 
            systems to be able to go global in minutes
            
  Cost optimization:
           Ability to run systems to deliver business value at the lowest price point
           
           includes adopting a consumption model, analyzing and attributing expenditure,
           and using managed services to reduce the cost of ownership
           
Benefits of Cloud Computing:

  Trade upfront expense for variable expense.
  Benefit from massive economies of scale.
  Stop guessing capacity.
  Increase speed and agility.
  Stop spending money running and maintaining data centers.
  Go global in minutes.
           
  
