Module 5: Storage and Databases
  Objectives:
      concepts of storage and databases, Amazon Elastic Block Store, Amazon Simple Storage Service,
      Amazon Elastic File System, Amazon Relational Database Service, Amazon Dynamo DB, summary
  
--  
Instance stores and Amazon Elastic Block Store:
    Block level storage - a place to store files. Cubby system
      Ex: Databases, Enterprise software, File systems
      
In a normal EC2 instance you have the hypervisor aws host and store volumes harddrive
  that is physically attached to host computer but this data is deleted when you stop running 
  your instance

EBS allows for backups of data called snapshots, only changed data is added
EBS you define confiugrations settings like volume, size and type. You can provision it. 
You can attach it to an EC2 instance

--
Amazon Simple Storage Service:
  Allows you to store and retrieve unlimited data
  Store data as objects. Each object contains data, metadata and a key
  Store objects in buckets
  Max object size is 5 TB
  Versionobjects of papertrail
  Create multiple permission objects
  Anytime there is a change to the object, you must re upload the entire file
  
  Tiered stored objects 
    First Tier - S3 Standard - Super reliable durability. Can sustain concurrent loss of data
                 S3 Standard Static Website
    Second tier - S3 Standard Infrequent Acces (Standard-IA) - Less frequent but rapidly retreivable
    Third tier - Amazon S3 Glacier longterm slowly retrievable data. Vaults and archives
                 Vault lock term. Can configure specific policys like Write once and Read many (WORM)
   life cycle policy to automatically transfer data to glacier after x days 
   
   
   Block Stoage Service     versus        Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3)
                        
   Size up to: 16 TiB                           Unlimited storage, each object 5tb
   Survive termination of EC2                   Write once, read many
   Solid State by default                       99.9999 durable
   HDD options                                  Web enabled
   Block micro change friendly                  Regionally distributed
                                                Offers cost savings
                                                Serverless
   
   
   Amazon Elastic File System (EFS):
      Regional service
      Stores data in and across multiple availability zones
      Used with AWS cloud services and on premises resources
      Allows for multiple instances accessing the data in EFS at the same time
      Autoscales as needed
  
  
  Amazon Relational Database (RDS)
    Relational database - Data is stored in a way that relates it to other pieces of data
    They use structured query language (SQL) to store and query data
    Amazon RDS allows to run RDBs in the aws cloud
    It is a managed service that automates tasks such as hardware provisioning, database setup, patching and backups
    Offers encryption at rest aka at storage and at transit
    
      RDS Engines - Amazon Aurora
                    PostgreSQL
                    MySql
                    MariaDB
                    Oracle Database
                    Microsoft SQL Server
     Automatic high availability, customer ownership of data, customer ownership of schema, customer control of network   
     Business analytics
     
     Amazon Aurora - An enterprise class relational databse. Up to 5x faster that standard MySQL database.
                     Helps reduce cost by reducing input/output operations. 
                     Good for workloads requiring high availability . Replicates 6 copis of data across 3 availability zones and 
                     continuously backups data to Amazon S3
   
   Amazon Dynamo DB
      Serverless database. Create tables to store and clear data. Organize data into items that have attributes aka different features
      Dynamo DB manages the underlying storage aka the scaling. Redundantly stores data. Milisecond response times. Useful for millions
      of users with fast response times
      
      MySQL Can have performance and scaling issues when under stress. Has rigid types of data structures stored in tables
      Dynamo uses NoSQL a non relational databse. No schema less rigid. Can be added or removed attribbutes
      Less complex query more simpler. Very quick and scalable. Purpose built
      
      Key value query, massive throughput capabilities, PetaByte size potentional, granular api access
      Everything else, general purpose
      
      
 Amazon Redshift
      An data warehousing service that you can use for big data analytics. Offers the availability to collect data
      from many sources and helps you understand relationships and trends across your data
    
    
Amazon Database Migration Service:
    Enables you to migrate relationsal databases, nonrelational databases, and other data stores
    Moves dbs between source and target with minimal downtime. Do not need to be of the same type using schema conversion tool
    
    Also useful for
        Development and test database migrations
        Database consolidations
        Continuous replication
    
Additional Database Services    
    Document DB - content management, user profiles
    Neptune - graph database engineered for recommendation, fraud, social network, supply chain links
    Quantum Ledger Database - immutable ledger. No entry can ever be removed or changed
    Managed Blockchain - lets multiple parties run transactions and share data without a central authority
    ElastiCache - Adding caching layers can improve read times 
    DynamoDB Accelerator - For Non relational databases
    
    
    
